A supermarket is a self-service shop offering a wide variety of food, beverages and household products, organized into sections. This kind of store is larger and has a wider selection than earlier grocery stores, but is smaller and more limited in the range of merchandise than a hypermarket or big-box market. In everyday United States usage, however, "grocery store" is often used to mean "supermarket".[2]

The supermarket typically has places for fresh meat, fresh produce, dairy, deli items, baked goods, and similar foodstuffs. Shelf space is also reserved for canned and packaged goods and for various non-food items such as kitchenware, household cleaners, pharmacy products and pet supplies. Some supermarkets also sell other household products that are consumed regularly, such as alcohol (where permitted), medicine, and clothing, and some sell a much wider range of non-food products: DVDs, sporting equipment, board games, and seasonal items (e.g., Christmas wrapping paper, Easter eggs, school uniforms, Valentine's Day themed gifts, Mother's Day gifts, Father's Day gifts and Halloween).

A larger full-service supermarket combined with a department store is sometimes known as a hypermarket. Other services may include those of banks, cafés, childcare centers/creches, insurance (and other financial services), mobile phone sales, photo processing, video rentals, pharmacies, and gas stations. If the eatery in a supermarket is substantial enough, the facility may be called a "grocerant", a portmanteau of "grocery" and "restaurant".[3]

The traditional supermarket occupies a large amount of floor space, usually on a single level. It is usually situated near a residential area in order to be convenient to consumers. The basic appeal is the availability of a broad selection of goods under a single roof, at relatively low prices. Other advantages include ease of parking and frequently the convenience of shopping hours that extend into the evening or even 24 hours of the day. Supermarkets usually allocate large budgets to advertising, typically through newspapers and television. They also present elaborate in-shop displays of products.

Supermarkets typically are chain stores, supplied by the distribution centers of their parent companies, thus increasing opportunities for economies of scale. Supermarkets usually offer products at relatively low prices by using their buying power to buy goods from manufacturers at lower prices than smaller stores can. They also minimize financing costs by paying for goods at least 30 days after receipt and some extract credit terms of 90 days or more from vendors. Certain products (typically staple foods such as bread, milk and sugar) are very occasionally sold as loss leaders so as to attract shoppers to their store. Supermarkets make up for their low margins by a high volume of sales, and with of higher-margin items bought by the customers. Self-service with shopping carts (trolleys) or baskets reduces labor costs, and many supermarket chains are attempting further reduction by shifting to self-service check-outs.

Historically, the earliest retailers were peddlers who marketed their wares in the streets; however, by the 1920s, retail food sales in the United States had mostly shifted to small corner grocery stores.[4] In that era, the standard retail grocery business model was for a clerk to fetch products from shelves behind the merchant's counter while customers waited in front of the counter, indicating the items they wanted.[4] Most foods and merchandise did not come in individually wrapped consumer-sized packages, so the clerk had to measure out and wrap the precise amount desired.[4] Merchants did not post prices, which forced customers to haggle and bargain with clerks to reach fair prices for their purchases.[4] This business model had already been established in Europe for several centuries. It offered extensive opportunities for social interaction: many regarded this style of shopping as "a social occasion" and would often "pause for conversations with the staff or other customers".[5]

These practices were by nature slow, had high labor intensity, and were quite expensive. The number of customers who could be attended to at one time was limited by the number of staff employed in the store. Shopping for groceries often also involved trips to multiple specialty shops, such as a greengrocer, butcher, bakery, fishmonger and dry goods store, in addition to a general store. Milk and other items of short shelf life were delivered by a milkman.

The concept of an inexpensive food market relying on economies of scale was developed by Vincent Astor. He founded the Astor Market in 1915, investing $750,000 of his fortune into a 165′ by 125′ (50×38-metre) corner of 95th and Broadway, Manhattan, creating, in effect, an open-air mini-mall that sold meat, fruit, produce and flowers.[6] The expectation was that customers would come from great distances ("miles around"), but in the end, even attracting people from ten blocks away was difficult, and the market folded in 1917.[7][8][9]

The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company (A&P), which was established in 1859, was an early grocery store chain in Canada and the United States. It became common in North American cities in the 1920s. Early chains like A&P did not sell fresh meats or produce. During the 1920s, to reduce the hassle of visiting multiple stores, U.S. grocery store chains like A&P introduced the combination store.[10] This was a grocery store which combined several departments under one roof, but generally maintained the traditional system of clerks pulling products from shelves on request.[10] By 1929, only one in three U.S. grocery stores was a combination store.[10]

The concept of a self-service grocery store predates the supermarket; it was developed by entrepreneur Clarence Saunders at his Piggly Wiggly stores, the first of which opened in 1916.[11] Saunders was awarded several patents for the ideas he incorporated into his stores.[12][13][14][15] The stores were a financial success and Saunders began to offer franchises.

The general trend since then has been to stock shelves at night so that customers, the following day, can obtain their own goods and bring them to the front of the store to pay for them. Although there is a higher risk of shoplifting, the costs of appropriate security measures ideally will be outweighed by reduced labor costs.[16][unreliable source?]

Historically, there has been much debate about the origin of the supermarket. For example, Southern California grocery store chains Alpha Beta and Ralphs both have strong claims to being the first supermarket.[17] By 1930, both chains were already operating multiple 12,000-square-foot (1,100 m2) self-service grocery stores.[17] However, as of 1930, both chains were not yet true supermarkets in the modern sense because their prices remained quite high;[17] one of the most important defining features of the supermarket is cheap food.[18] Their main selling point was free parking.[17] Other strong contenders in Texas included Weingarten's and Henke & Pillot.[19]

To end the debate, the Food Marketing Institute in conjunction with the Smithsonian Institution and with funding from H.J. Heinz, researched the issue. They defined the attributes of a supermarket as "self-service, separate product departments, discount pricing, marketing and volume selling".[20] They determined that the first true supermarket in the United States was opened by a former Kroger employee, Michael J. Cullen, on 4 August 1930, inside a 6,000-square-foot (560 m2) former garage in Jamaica, Queens in New York City.[20][21] The store King Kullen, operated under the logic of "pile it high and sell it cheap".[18] The layout was designed by Joseph Unger, who originated the concept of customers using baskets to collect groceries before checking out at a counter.[22] Everything displayed for sale in the store "had prices clearly marked", meaning that consumers would no longer need to haggle over prices.[18] Cullen described his store as "the world's greatest price wrecker".[18][23] At the time of his death in 1936, there were seventeen King Kullen stores in operation. Although Saunders had brought the world self-service, uniform stores, and nationwide marketing, Cullen built on this idea by adding separate food departments, selling large volumes of food at discount prices and adding a parking lot.[20]

Early supermarkets like King Kullen were called "cheapy markets" by industry experts at the time; this was soon replaced by the phrase "super market".[18] The compound phrase was then closed up to become the modern term "supermarket".[11]

Other established American grocery chains in the 1930s, such as Kroger and Safeway Inc. at first resisted Cullen's idea, but were eventually forced to build their own supermarkets as the economy sank into the Great Depression. American consumers became extraordinarily price-sensitive at a level never experienced before.[20] Kroger took the idea one step further and pioneered the first supermarket surrounded on all four sides by a parking lot.[20] Once the large chains joined the supermarket trend, the new retail format became widespread. The number of American supermarkets almost tripled from 1,200 in 32 states in 1936 to over 3,000 in 47 states in 1937.[18] It was well over 15,000 by 1950.[24] One sign of the supermarket format's success in slashing labor costs, overhead, and food prices was that the percentage of disposable income spent by American consumers on food plunged "from 21 percent in 1930 to 16 percent in 1940".[18] The modern era of "cheap food" had begun.[18]

As large chain stores began to dominate the American grocery landscape with their low overhead and low prices (while crushing numerous independent small stores along the way), a backlash to this radical alteration of food distribution infrastructure appeared in the form of numerous anti-chain campaigns. The idea of "monopsony", proposed by Cambridge economist Joan Robinson in 1933, that a single buyer could outmaneuver a market of multiple sellers, became a strong anti-chain rhetorical device. With public backlash came political pressure to even the playing field for smaller vendors lacking the luxury of economies of scale. In 1936, the Robinson-Patman Act was implemented as a way of preventing such large chains from using their buying power to reap advantages over small stores, although the act was not well enforced and did not have much impact on such chains.[25]

Supermarkets rapidly proliferated across both Canada and the United States with the growth of automobile ownership and suburban development after World War II. Most North American supermarkets are located in suburban strip shopping centers as an anchor store along with other smaller retailers. They are generally regional rather than national in their company branding. Kroger is the most nationally oriented supermarket chain in the United States, but it has preserved most of its regional brands, including Ralphs, City Market, King Soopers, Fry's, Smith's, and QFC.[citation needed]

In Canada, the largest such company is Loblaw, which operates stores under a variety of banners targeted to different segments and regions, including Fortinos, Zehrs, No Frills, the Real Canadian Superstore, and Loblaws, the foundation of the company. Sobeys is Canada's second largest supermarket with locations across the country, operating under many banners (Sobeys IGA in Quebec).[citation needed] Québec's first supermarket opened in 1934 in Montréal, under the banner Steinberg's.[26]

In the United Kingdom, self-service shopping took longer to become established. Even in 1947, there were just ten self-service shops in the country.[27] In 1951, ex-US Navy sailor Patrick Galvani, son-in-law of Express Dairies chairman, made a pitch to the board to open a chain of supermarkets across the country. The UK's first supermarket under the new Premier Supermarkets brand opened in Streatham, South London,[28] taking ten times as much per week as the average British general store of the time. Other chains caught on, and after Galvani lost out to Tesco's Jack Cohen in 1960 to buy the 212 Irwin's chain, the sector underwent a large amount of consolidation, resulting in 'the big four' dominant UK of today: Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons.

In the 1950s, supermarkets frequently issued trading stamps as incentives to customers. Today, most chains issue store-specific "membership cards", "club cards", or "loyalty cards". These typically enable the cardholder to receive special members-only discounts on certain items when the credit card-like device is scanned at the checkout.[29] Sales of selected data generated by club cards is becoming a significant revenue stream for some supermarkets.

Traditional supermarkets in many countries face intense competition from discounters such as Wal-Mart, Aldi and Lidl, which typically is non-union and operates with better buying power. Other competition exists from warehouse clubs such as Costco that offer savings to customers buying in bulk quantities. Superstores, such as those operated by Wal-Mart and Asda, often offer a wide range of goods and services in addition to foods. In Australia, Aldi, Woolworths and Coles are the major players running the industry with fierce competition among all the three. The rising market share of Aldi has forced the other two to cut prices and increase their private label product ranges.[30] The proliferation of such warehouse and superstores has contributed to the continuing disappearance of smaller, local grocery stores, the increased dependence on the automobile, and suburban sprawl because of the necessity for large floor space and increased vehicular traffic. For example, in 2009 51% of Wal-Mart's $251 billion domestic sales were recorded from grocery goods.[31] Some critics consider the chains' common practice of selling loss leaders to be anti-competitive. They are also wary of the negotiating power that large, often multinationals have with suppliers around the world.[32]

Online-only supermarkets (21st century)
Main article: Online grocer
Further information: Online food ordering
During the dot-com boom, Webvan, an online-only supermarket, was formed and went bankrupt after three years and was acquired by Amazon. The British online supermarket Ocado, which uses a high degree of automation in its warehouses,[33] was the first successful online-only supermarket. Ocado expanded into providing services to other supermarket firms such as Waitrose and Morrisons.

Grocery stores such as Walmart employ food delivery services offered by third parties such as DoorDash.[34] Other online food delivery services, such as Deliveroo in the United Kingdom, have begun to pay specific attention to supermarket delivery.[35]

Delivery robots are offered by various companies partnering with supermarkets.

Micro-fulfillment centers (MFC) are relatively small warehouses with sophisticated automated rack-and-tote systems which prepare orders for pickup and delivery.[36] Once the order is complete, the customer will pick it up (i.e. "click-and-collect") or have it fulfilled via home delivery.[37] Supermarkets are investing in micro-fulfillment centers with the hope that automation can help reduce the costs of online commerce and e-commerce by shortening the distances from store to home and speeding up deliveries. MFCs are said by many to be the key to profitably fulfilling online orders.[38]

A coffeehouse, coffee shop, or café is an establishment that primarily serves various types of coffee, espresso, latte, and cappuccino. Some coffeehouses may serve cold drinks, such as iced coffee and iced tea, as well as other non-caffeinated beverages. A coffeehouse may also serve food, such as light snacks, sandwiches, muffins, fruit, or pastries. In continental Europe, some cafés also serve alcoholic beverages. Coffeehouses range from owner-operated small businesses to large multinational corporations. Some coffeehouse chains operate on a franchise business model, with numerous branches across various countries around the world.

While café may refer to a coffeehouse, the term "café" can also refer to a diner, British café (also colloquially called a "caff"), "greasy spoon" (a small and inexpensive restaurant), transport café, teahouse or tea room, or other casual eating and drinking place.[1][2][3][4][5] A coffeehouse may share some of the same characteristics of a bar or restaurant, but it is different from a cafeteria. Many coffeehouses in West Asia offer shisha (actually called nargile in Levantine Arabic, Greek, and Turkish), flavored tobacco smoked through a hookah. An espresso bar is a type of coffeehouse that specializes in serving espresso and espresso-based drinks.

From a cultural standpoint coffeehouses largely serve as centers of social interaction: a coffeehouse provides patrons with a place to congregate, talk, read, write, entertain one another, or pass the time, whether individually or in small groups. A coffeehouse can serve as an informal club for its regular members.[6] As early as the 1950s Beatnik era and the 1960s folk music scene, coffeehouses have hosted singer-songwriter performances, typically in the evening.[7]

The most common English spelling of café is the French word for both coffee and coffeehouse;[9][10] it was snatched by English-speaking countries in the late 19th century.[11] The Italian spelling, caffè, is also sometimes used in English.[12] In Southern England, especially around London in the 1950s, the French pronunciation was often facetiously altered to /kæf/ and spelt caff.[13]

The English word coffee and French word café (coffeehouse) both derive from the Italian caffè[9][14]—first attested as caveé in Venice in 1570[15]—and in turn derived from Arabic qahwa (قهوة). The Arabic term qahwa originally referred to a type of wine, but after the wine ban by Islam, the name was transferred to coffee because of the similar rousing effect it induced.[16] European knowledge of coffee (the plant, its seeds, and the drink made from the seeds) came through European contact with Turkey, likely via Venetian-Ottoman trade relations.

The English word café to describe a restaurant that usually serves coffee and snacks rather than the word coffee that describes the drink, is derived from the French café. The first café in France is believed to have opened in 1660.[9] The first café in Europe is believed to have been opened in Belgrade, Ottoman Serbia in 1522 as a Kafana (Serbian coffee house).[17]

The translingual word root /kafe/ appears in many European languages with various naturalized spellings, including Portuguese, Spanish, and French (café); German (Kaffee); Polish (kawa); Serbian (кафа / kafa); Ukrainian (кава, 'kava'); and others.


The first coffeehouses appeared in Damascus. These Ottoman coffeehouses also appeared in Mecca, in the Arabian Peninsula in the 15th century, then spread to the Ottoman Empire's capital of Istanbul in the 16th century and in Baghdad. Coffeehouses became popular meeting places where people gathered to drink coffee, have conversations, play board games such as chess and backgammon, listen to stories and music, and discuss news and politics. They became known as "schools of wisdom" for the type of clientele they attracted, and their free and frank discourse.[18][19]

Coffeehouses in Mecca became a concern of imams who viewed them as places for political gatherings and drinking, leading to bans between 1512 and 1524.[20] However, these bans could not be maintained, due to coffee becoming ingrained in daily ritual and culture among Arabs and neighboring peoples.[18] The Ottoman chronicler İbrahim Peçevi reports in his writings (1642–49) about the opening of the first coffeehouse (kiva han) in Istanbul:

Until the year 962 [1555], in the High, God-Guarded city of Constantinople, as well as in Ottoman lands generally, coffee and coffeehouses did not exist. About that year, a fellow called Hakam from Aleppo and a wag called Shams from Damascus came to the city; they each opened a large shop in the district called Tahtakale, and began to purvey coffee.[21]


A coffeehouse in Cairo, 18th century
Persia
The 17th century French traveler and writer Jean Chardin gave a lively description of the Persian coffeehouse (qahveh khaneh in Persian) scene:

People engage in conversation, for it is there that news is communicated and where those interested in politics criticize the government in all freedom and without being fearful, since the government does not heed what the people say. Innocent games ... resembling checkers, hopscotch, and chess, are played. In addition, mollas, dervishes, and poets take turns telling stories in verse or in prose. The narrations by the mollas and the dervishes are moral lessons, like our sermons, but it is not considered scandalous not to pay attention to them. No one is forced to give up his game or his conversation because of it. A molla will stand up in the middle, or at one end of the qahveh-khaneh, and begin to preach in a loud voice, or a dervish enters all of a sudden, and chastises the assembled on the vanity of the world and its material goods. It often happens that two or three people talk at the same time, one on one side, the other on the opposite, and sometimes one will be a preacher and the other a storyteller.[22]

Europe

A coffeehouse in London, 17th century

"Discussing the War in a Paris Café", The Illustrated London News, 17 September 1870
In the 17th century, coffee appeared for the first time in Europe outside the Ottoman Empire, and coffeehouses were established, soon becoming increasingly popular. The first coffeehouse is said to have appeared in 1632 in Livorno, founded by a Jewish merchant,[23][24] or later in 1640, in Venice.[25] In the 19th and 20th centuries in Europe, coffeehouses were very often meeting points for writers and artists.[26]

Austria

A Viennese café

Trieste from where the cappuccino spread
The traditional tale of the origins of the Viennese café begins with the mysterious sacks of green beans left behind when the Turks were defeated in the Battle of Vienna in 1683. All the sacks of coffee were granted to the victorious Polish king Jan III Sobieski, who in turn gave them to one of his officers, Jerzy Franciszek Kulczycki, a Ukrainian cossack and Polish diplomat of Ruthenian descent. Kulczycki, according to the tale, then began the first coffeehouse in Vienna with the hoard, also being the first to serve coffee with milk. There is a statue of Kulczycki on a street also named after him.

However, it is now widely accepted that the first Viennese coffeehouse was actually opened by an Armenian merchant named Johannes Diodato.[repetition][27] Johannes Diodato (also known as Johannes Theodat) opened a registered coffeehouse in Vienna in 1685.[28][27] Fifteen years later, four other Armenians owned coffeehouses.[28] The culture of drinking coffee was itself widespread in the country in the second half of the 18th century.

Over time, a special coffee house culture developed in Habsburg Vienna. On the one hand, writers, artists, musicians, intellectuals, bon vivants and their financiers met in the coffee house, and on the other hand, new coffee varieties were always served. In the coffee house, people played cards or chess, worked, read, thought, composed, discussed, argued, observed and just chatted. A lot of information was also obtained in the coffee house, because local and foreign newspapers were freely available to all guests. This form of coffee house culture spread throughout the Habsburg Empire in the 19th century.[29][30]

Scientific theories, political plans but also artistic projects were worked out and discussed in Viennese coffee houses all over Central Europe. James Joyce even enjoyed his coffee in a Viennese coffee house on the Adriatic in Trieste, then and now the main port for coffee and coffee processing in Italy and Central Europe. From there, the Viennese Kapuziner coffee developed into today's world-famous cappuccino. This special multicultural atmosphere of the Habsburg coffee houses was largely destroyed by the later National Socialism and Communism and can only be found today in a few places that have long been in the slipstream of history, such as Vienna or Trieste.[31][32][33][34]

England
Main article: English coffeehouses in the 17th and 18th centuries
The first coffeehouse in England was set up on the High Street in Oxford in 1650[35]–1651[36][page needed] by "Jacob the Jew". A second competing coffee house was opened across the street in 1654, by "Cirques Jobson, the Jew" (Queen's Lane Coffee House).[37] In London, the earliest coffeehouse was established by Pasqua Rosée in 1652.[38] Anthony Wood observed of the coffee houses of Oxford in his Life and Times (1674) "The decay of study, and consequently of learning, are coffee houses, to which most scholars retire and spend much of the day in hearing and speaking of news".[39] The proprietor was Pasqua Rosée, the servant of a trader in goods from the Ottoman Empire named Daniel Edwards, who imported the coffee and assisted Rosée in setting up the establishment there.[40][41]

From 1670 to 1685, the number of London coffeehouses began to increase, and they also began to gain political importance due to their popularity as places of debate.[42] English coffeehouses were significant meeting places, particularly in London. By 1675, there were more than 3,000 coffeehouses in England.[43] The coffeehouses were great social levelers, open to all men and indifferent to social status, and as a result associated with equality and republicanism. Entry gave access to books or print news. Coffeehouses boosted the popularity of print news culture and helped the growth of various financial markets including insurance, stocks, and auctions. Lloyd's of London had its origins in a coffeehouse run by Edward Lloyd, where underwriters of ship insurance met to do business. The rich intellectual atmosphere of early London coffeehouses was available to anyone who could pay the sometimes one penny entry fee, giving them the name of 'Penny Universities'.[44]

Though Charles II later tried to suppress London coffeehouses as "places where the disaffected met, and spread scandalous reports concerning the conduct of His Majesty and his Ministers", the public still flocked to them. For several decades following the Restoration, the wits gathered around John Dryden at Will's Coffee House, in Russell Street, Covent Garden.[45] As coffeehouses were believed to be areas where anti-government gossip could easily spread, Queen Mary and the London City magistrates tried to prosecute people who frequented coffeehouses as they were liable to "spread false and seditious reports". William III's privy council also suppressed Jacobite sympathizers in the 1680s and 1690s in coffeehouses as these were the places that they believed harbored plotters against the regimes.[46]

By 1739, there were 551 coffeehouses in London; each attracted a particular clientele divided by occupation or attitude, such as Tories and Whigs, wits and stockjobbers, merchants and lawyers, booksellers and authors, men of fashion or the "cits" of the old city center. According to one French visitor, Antoine François Prévost, coffeehouses, "where you have the right to read all the papers for and against the government", were the "seats of English liberty".[47]

Jonathan's Coffee House in 1698 saw the listing of stock and commodity prices that evolved into the London Stock Exchange. Lloyd's Coffee House provided the venue for merchants and shippers to discuss insurance deals[repetition], leading to the establishment of Lloyd's of London insurance market, the Lloyd's Register classification society, and other related businesses. Auctions in salesrooms attached to coffeehouses provided the start for the great auction houses of Sotheby's and Christie's.

In Victorian England, the temperance movement set up coffeehouses (also known as coffee taverns) for the working classes, as a place of relaxation free of alcohol, an alternative to the public house.[48][49]

Romania
In 1667, Kara Hamie, a former Ottoman Janissary from Constantinople, opened the first coffee shop in Bucharest (then the capital of the Principality of Wallachia), in the center of the city, where today sits the main building of the National Bank of Romania.[50]

France
Pasqua Rosée, an Armenian by the name Harutiun Vartian, also established the first coffeehouse in Paris in 1672 and held a citywide coffee monopoly until Procopio Cutò, his apprentice, opened the Café Procope in 1686.[51] This coffeehouse still exists today and was a popular meeting place of the French Enlightenment; Voltaire, Rousseau, and Denis Diderot frequented it, and it is arguably the birthplace of the Encyclopédie, the first modern encyclopedia.

Hungary
The first known cafes in Pest date back to 1714 when a house intended to serve as a Cafe (Balázs Kávéfőző) was purchased. Minutes of the Pest City Council from 1729 mention complaints by the Balázs café and Franz Reschfellner Cafe against the Italian-originated café of Francesco Bellieno for selling underpriced coffee.[52]

Italy

Caffè Florian in Venice
During the 18th century, the oldest extant coffeehouses in Italy were established: Caffè Florian in Venice, Antico Caffè Greco in Rome, Caffè Pedrocchi in Padua, Caffè dell'Ussero in Pisa and Caffè Fiorio in Turin.

Ireland
In the 18th century, Dublin coffeehouses functioned as early reading centers and the emergence of circulation and subscription libraries that provided greater access to printed material for the public. The interconnectivity of the coffeehouse and virtually every aspect of the print trade were evidenced by the incorporation of printing, publishing, selling, and viewing of newspapers, pamphlets and books on the premises, most notably in the case of Dick's Coffee House, owned by Richard Pue; thus contributing to a culture of reading and increased literacy.[53] These coffeehouses were a social magnet where different strata of society came together to discuss topics covered by the newspapers and pamphlets. Most coffeehouses of the 18th century would eventually be equipped with their own printing presses or incorporate a book shop.[54]

Today, the term café is used for most coffeehouses – this can be spelled both with and without an acute accent, but is always pronounced as two syllables. The name café has also come to be used for a type of diners that offers cooked meals (again, without alcoholic beverages) which can be standalone or operating within shopping centres or department stores. In Irish usage, the presence or absence of the acute accent does not signify the type of establishment (coffeehouse versus diner), and is purely a decision by the owner: for instance, the two largest diner-style café chains in Ireland in the 1990s were named "Kylemore Cafe" and "Bewley's Café" – i.e., one written without, and one with, the acute accent.

Portugal

Statue of Fernando Pessoa by Lagoa Henriques, next to the A Brasileira café, in Chiado, Lisbon.
The history of coffee in Portugal is usually told to have begun during the reign of king John V, when Portuguese agent Francisco de Melo Palheta supposedly managed to steal coffee beans from the Dutch East India Company and introduce it to Brazil. From Brazil, coffee was taken to Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe, which were also Portuguese colonies at the time. Although, coffee already existed in Angola, already introduced by Portuguese missionaries. During the 18th century, the first public cafés appeared, inspired by french gatherings from the 17th century, becoming spaces for cultural and artistic entertainment.

Several cafes emerged in Lisbon such as: Martinho da Arcada (being the oldest café still functioning, having opened in 1782), Café Tavares, Botequim Parras, among others. Of these several became famous for harbouring poets and artists, such as Manuel du Bocage with his visits to Café Nicola, which opened in 1796 by the Italian Nicola Breteiro; and Fernando Pessoa with his visits to A Brasileira, which opened in 1905 by Adriano Teles. The most famous of these coffee houses was the Café Marrare, opened by the napolitan Antonio Marrare, in 1820, frequently visited by Júlio Castilho, Raimundo de Bulhão Pato, Almeida Garrett, Alexandre Herculano and other members of the Portuguese government and the intelligentsia. It began its own saying: «Lisboa era Chiado, o Chiado era o Marrare e o Marrare ditava a lei» (English: "Lisbon was the Chiado, the Chiado was the Marrare and the Marrare dictated the law").

Other coffee houses soon opened across the country, such as Café Vianna, opened in Braga, in 1858, by Manoel José da Costa Vianna, which was also visited by important Portuguese writers such as Camilo Castelo Branco and Eça de Queirós. During the 1930's, a surge in coffee houses happened in Porto with the opening of several that still exist, such as Café Guarany, opened in 1933, and A Regaleira, opened in 1934.

Switzerland
In 1761 the Turm Kaffee, a shop for exported goods, was opened in St. Gallen.[55]

Gender
The exclusion of women from coffeehouses as guests was not universal, but does appear to have been common in Europe. In Germany, women frequented them, but in England and France they were banned.[56] Émilie du Châtelet purportedly cross-dressed to gain entrance to a coffeehouse in Paris.[57]

In a well-known engraving of a Parisian café c. 1700,[58] the gentlemen hang their hats on pegs and sit at long communal tables strewn with papers and writing implements. Coffee pots are ranged at an open fire, with a hanging cauldron of boiling water. The only woman present presides, separated in a canopied booth, from which she serves coffee in tall cups.

Aside from the discussion around women as guests of the coffeehouses, it is noted that women did work as waitresses at coffeehouses and also managed coffeehouses as proprietors. Well known women in the coffeehouse business were Moll King (coffee house proprietor) in England, and Maja-Lisa Borgman in Sweden.[59]

Contemporary
In most European countries, such as Spain, Austria, Denmark, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Portugal, and others, the term café means a restaurant primarily serving coffee, as well as pastries such as cakes, tarts, pies, or buns. Many cafés also serve light meals such as sandwiches. European cafés often have tables on the pavement (sidewalk) as well as indoors. Some cafés also serve alcoholic drinks (e.g., wine), particularly in Southern Europe. In the Netherlands and Belgium, a café is the equivalent of a bar, and also sells alcoholic drinks. In the Netherlands a koffiehuis serves coffee, while a coffee shop (using the English term) sells "soft" drugs (cannabis and hashish) and is generally not allowed to sell alcoholic drinks. In France, most cafés serve as lunch restaurants in the day, and bars in the evening. They generally do not have pastries except in the mornings, when a croissant or pain au chocolat can be purchased with breakfast coffee. In Italy, cafés are similar to those found in France and known as bar. They typically serve a variety of espresso coffee, cakes and alcoholic drinks. Bars in city centers usually have different prices for consumption at the bar and consumption at a table.[60][citation needed]

Americas
Argentina

Café Tortoni is an emblematic café in Buenos Aires. Frequented by Jorge Luis Borges among many other figures of Argentina.
Coffeehouses are part of the culture of Buenos Aires and the customs of its inhabitants. They are traditional meeting places for 'porteños' and have inspired innumerable artistic creations. Some notable coffeehouses include Confitería del Molino, Café Tortoni, El Gato Negro, Café La Biela.

United States

Caffe Reggio on MacDougal Street in New York City's Greenwich Village which was founded in 1927
The first coffeehouse in America opened in Boston, in 1676.[61] However, Americans did not start choosing coffee over tea until the Boston Tea Party and the Revolutionary War. After the Revolutionary War, Americans momentarily went back to drinking tea until after the War of 1812 when they began importing high-quality coffee from Latin America and expensive inferior-quality tea from American shippers instead of Great Britain.[62] Whether they were drinking coffee or tea, coffeehouses served a similar purpose to that which they did in Great Britain, as places where business was done. In the 1780s, Merchant's Coffee House located on Wall Street in New York City was home to the organization of the Bank of New York and the New York Chamber of Commerce.[63]

Coffeehouses in the United States arose from the espresso- and pastry-centered Italian coffeehouses of the Italian American immigrant communities in the major U.S. cities, notably New York City's Little Italy and Greenwich Village, Boston's North End, and San Francisco's North Beach. From the late 1950s onward, coffeehouses also served as a venue for entertainment, most commonly folk performers during the American folk music revival.[64] Both Greenwich Village and North Beach became major haunts of the Beats, who were highly identified with these coffeehouses. As the youth culture of the 1960s evolved, non-Italians consciously copied these coffeehouses. The political nature of much of 1960s folk music made the music a natural tie-in with coffeehouses with their association with political action. A number of well-known performers like Joan Baez and Bob Dylan began their careers performing in coffeehouses. Blues singer Lightnin' Hopkins bemoaned his woman's inattentiveness to her domestic situation due to her overindulgence in coffeehouse socializing in his 1969 song "Coffeehouse Blues".[citation needed]

In 1966, Alfred Peet began applying the dark roast style to high quality beans and opened up a small shop in Berkeley, California to educate customers on the virtues of good coffee.[62] Starting in 1967 with the opening of the historic Last Exit on Brooklyn coffeehouse, Seattle became known for its thriving countercultural coffeehouse scene; the Starbucks chain later standardized and mainstreamed this espresso bar model.[65]

From the 1960s through the mid-1980s, churches and individuals in the United States used the coffeehouse concept for outreach. They were often storefronts and had names like The Lost Coin (Greenwich Village), The Gathering Place (Riverside, CA), Catacomb Chapel (New York City), and Jesus For You (Buffalo, NY). Christian music (often guitar-based) was performed, coffee and food was provided, and Bible studies were convened as people of varying backgrounds gathered in a casual setting that was purposefully different from traditional churches. An out-of-print book, published by the ministry of David Wilkerson, titled, A Coffeehouse Manual, served as a guide for Christian coffeehouses, including a list of name suggestions for coffeehouses.[66]

They are popular to this day with coffeehouses such as Starbucks seeming to be on every corner of streets in several major American cities including Los Angeles and Seattle.[67]

Nearly 900 Million Oil Changes Are Performed Each Year
Getting your oil changed regularly is very important. We recommend changing your oil every 3,000-5,000 miles. To learn more about how to check your oil, click here!
The Average Car Owner Spends About $400 On Diagnostics, Scheduled Maintenance, and Tune-Ups Every Year
If you own a vehicle, odds are you will be spending about 400 a year on maintenance. These maintenance services are very important to the longevity of your vehicle. Avoiding these services could lead to breakdowns or other expensive services.
60 Billion Dollars Worth Of Car Maintenance Does Unperformed Each Year
It is very important to take care of your car's maintenance because unperformed maintenance services can lead to more expensive breakdowns. If you need an oil change, tire rotation, or another maintenance service, book an appointment with a qualified mechanic right away, so you don't contribute to the 60 billion dollars of unperformed car maintenance.
Cars Are Made Up Of Approximately 30,000 Parts
There are so many different parts in a car, it is almost impossible for the average car owner to know all of them. That's why it is so important to hire a knowledgeable technician to repair your car when there is a problem. You might know of a few of the more common auto parts such as the battery, engine, headlights, brake pads, and more. But there are hundreds of parts you may have never even heard of, like the combination valve, distributor, spacer ring, fuel injector, and more.
In 2019, The Most Common Reason For An Illuminated Check Engine Light Was A Problem With The Catalytic Converter
Catalytic converter replacement services are more common in older vehicles, and since the average age of cars on the road is becoming older, this service is needed more often. Want to learn more about catalytic converters? Click here!
60 Billion Dollars Worth Of Car Maintenance Does Unperformed Each Year
Many car owners put off car maintenance services because they don't want to spend their money, but avoiding maintenance can lead to more severe problems. Click here to learn why car maintenance is so important to your vehicle's health.
Automotive History Fun Facts
Windshield Wipers Were Invented By A Woman Named Mary Anderson
In 1905, Mary Anderson invented windshield wipers to remove the hassle of driving in the rain or snow. Before windshield wipers were invented, drivers would have to repeatedly get out of their cars and clean off the windshield by hand.
Antilock Brakes Were Invented Over 50 Years Ago
The first antilock brakes were invented in the 1920s, and they became more popular in the 1990s. Today, most modern cars have an antilock braking system, or ABS. Click here to learn even more about the antilock braking systems.
The Term "Tune-Up" Was Created By Henry Ford While Working On His First Automobile Prototype
Henry Ford spent a lot of time working on the automobile, and he noticed that when the coils worked together properly, they would buzz. If the coils didn't make the buzzing sound, it showed they needed an adjustment that he later called a "tune-up."
The First Electric Vehicle Was Created In 1832
Robert Anderson created the first electric-powered vehicle in 1832. Then in the 1990s, General Motors produced the EV1, otherwise known as the first mass-produced electric car. Today, many drivers are opting to purchase an electric car to reduce their carbon footprint.
The Worlds First Automobile Race Was In 1895 With A Winning Speed Of 15 MPH
Things have changed quite a bit since 1895, and luckily, cars can move a lot faster than 15. If cars could still only drive a maximum of 15 mph, it would take a long time to get around.
Brake Lights Were Invented In 1905
Prior to the invention of brake lights, many drivers relied on hand signals to let others know where they were going. This was problematic at night time as the dark made it difficult to see hand signals. Now, brake lights are a requirement for vehicles as they are an important safety feature!
The First Recorded Road Trip Was In August Of 1888 By Bertha Benz
Bertha Benz, the wife of Karl Benz who invented the first practical motorcar, and her two sons took a road trip from Mannheim to Pforzheim, Germany. The 66-mile trip was the first long-distance road trip ever recorded and took about 7 hours to complete.
The Inventor Of Cruise Control, Ralph Teetor, Was Blind
Ralph Teetor got into an accident when he was five years old that caused him to be blind. The accident never stopped his curiosity thought! He eventually set out to create a mechanism that could keep the vehicle speed constant in order to save fuel. This first cruise control mechanism was called a "Speedostat."
Prior To The Invention Of The Steering Wheel, Drivers Used A Lever To Steer The Car
Steering wheels were invented in Cleveland, Ohio, by a man named Alexander Winton. Back in 1896, Winton began a series of inventions relating to cars and is most known for his steering wheel.
The Car Radio Was First Introduced By Chevrolet
In 1922, the first car radio was introduced by Chevrolet. The government wanted to ban it because it could be considered a distraction, but the ban didn't go through. By 1963, most vehicles had radios in them.
The First Three-Point Seatbelt Was Introduced In 1959
The Volvo Amazon 120 and PV 544 were the first models to have the three-point seatbelt that we know today. Nils Bohlin, a Volvo engineer, is credited with the development of the seatbelts. And as of 1968, all vehicles were required to have this three-point seatbelt as a safety feature.
Car Manufacturer Fun Facts
The Best-Selling Car Of All Time Is The Toyota Corolla
Toyota has sold more than 43 million Toyota Corollas since 1966! This model is extremely popular because it is widely available all over the world, it continues to get updated and improved each year, it has good gas mileage, and it's well-known for being a reliable vehicle.
Toyota Is The Largest Car Manufacturer In The World
Toyota makes approximately 13,000 cars every day! No wonder Toyotas are one of the most popular cars on the road today.
Ferrari Only Manufactures A Maximum Of 14 Cars A Day
The Ferrari manufacturers only produce 14 cars a day. That is a very large difference from Toyota's 13,000 vehicles a day! The limited number of vehicles produced makes them more exclusive and valuable.
Car-Related World Record Fun Facts
The World Record Of The Highest Vehicle Mileage Is 3,039,122 miles
Irvin Gordon was able to put just over 3 million miles on his 1966 Volvo 1800S back in 2014. That is almost the same distance as 120 trips around the earth! His secret? The world may never know! All we can suggest to keep your car healthy and able to tack on the miles is to maintain a regular maintenance schedule.
However, you want to have low mileage on your vehicle unless you are attempting to break the world record. For tips on how to keep your car's mileage low, click here!
The Largest Car Collection World Record Is 7,000+ Cars
The 29th Sultan of Brunei owns over 7,000 cars of all different makes and models. He owns extremely rare, one-of-a-kind cars as well as more popular ones. It's enough to make any car lover jealous.
The World Record For The Fastest Engine Replacement Is 42 Seconds
Five Royal British marines spent two weeks practicing engine replacements until they could do it fast enough to break the world record. Since then, they have continued to hold the world record for the fastest engine replacement ever!

The Famous "New Car Smell" Is Made Up Of About 50 Volatile Organic Compounds
Most car manufacturers are trying to find ways to eliminate this smell because it contains harmful chemicals. The volatile organic compounds, or VOC, come from petroleum-based solvents in the plastic and vinyl parts of the car.
95% Of A Car's Lifetime Is Spent Parked
Your car spends only 5% of its lifetime on the road. The rest of its lifetime will be spent parked overnight or while not in use.  This is why it is so important to park your car in a safe spot like a private garage or a driveway.
95% Of Americans Drive An Automatic Vehicle
Most Americans drive an automatic vehicle for the ease of driving. In fact, since the 1980s, automatic vehicles have been growing in popularity. The remaining 5% of drivers prefer manual vehicles. Do you prefer automatic or manual transmission?
Most Car Horns Honk In The Key of F
You might have noticed that most car sound the same when the driver honks the horn, but did you know that car horns typically honk in the key of F? The most common sounds are F and F#, but you can still hear other keys too.
The Average American Spends Over 38 Hours In Traffic Every Year
38 hours is a long time, but that is just an average. Some Americans spend more or less time in traffic. In fact, people living in Los Angeles spend an average of 119 hours in traffic every year.
Cars On The Road Are Getting Older Over Time
The average age of cars on the road in 2010 was 10.6 years, and in 2019 it was 11.8. This number is expected to continue growing as newer vehicles are built with more complex technology, allowing them to have a longer lifespan.
The Most Common Car Color Is White And The Least Popular Car Color Is Purple
White, black, and gray are the most popular car colors, and you probably could have guessed that just by looking at the other cars on the road. Brighter, less-common colors like purple, orange, and yellow are not as easy to find.
There Are About 50 Pounds Of Copper Wiring In The Average Car
There's about 40 pounds of copper in the electrical system, and 10 pounds of copper are found in non-electrical systems. That's a lot of copper wiring and parts! Luckily, you can leave that all to your mechanic.